Adding a new page for Synthetics troubleshooting (#5525)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/synthetics/troubleshooting/_index.md

---
title: Synthetics Troubleshooting
kind: documentation
description: Troubleshoot common Synthetics isses.
beta: true
further_reading:
- link: "synthetics/"
  tag: "Documentation"

>   text: "Manage your checks"

Reviewer: checks => tests

- link: "synthetics/browser_tests"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure a Browser Test"
- link: "synthetics/api_tests"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure an API Test"
---

If you experience issues setting up or configuring Datadog Synthetics, use this information to begin troubleshooting. If you continue to have trouble, [contact our awesome support team][1].

> ## Failed requests on a working endpoint

Reviewer 2: Let's create a first category called API tests, and then put that paragraph in a subcategory called something like `Set a user-agent`. This way some users might not even need to go through the whole paragraph and will be able to directly understand what they need to do by reading the title!

> You can sometimes get `5xx` or `4xx` when setting an API or Browser test on your endpoints. This happens most when hitting `Test URL` to perform a fast test, and then the error shows up in your regular test results. However, you know there's not actually an issue, because when you visit your website in a browser (or cURL it), you're getting `2xx`. 

Reviewer 2: Actually, let's only write API test as Browser tests automatically set a user agent!

Sometimes you know you have a working endpoint because when you visit your website in a browser (or cURL it), you get `2xx` status code. But when setting an API test on this endpoints or when hitting `Test URL` to perform a fast test you get `5xx` or `4xx` status code.

> This happens because cURL automatically sets a `user-agent` as a request header, and this also automatically happens when you visit the website in your browser. Datadog API tests don't automatically set a `user-agent`. This can be a problem because some websites ban requests that don't have a `user-agent` set, which causes Datadog API tests to return a `5xx` or `4xx` status code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This happens because cURL automatically sets a `user-agent` as a request header (as your browser), but Datadog API tests don't automatically set one. 
This can be a problem because some websites ban requests that don't have a `user-agent` set, which causes Datadog API tests to return a `5xx` or `4xx` status code.
```

> This happens because cURL automatically sets a `user-agent` as a request header, and this also automatically happens when you visit the website in your browser. Datadog API tests and Browser tests don't automatically set a `user-agent`. This can be a problem because some websites ban requests that don't have a `user-agent` set, which causes Datadog API tests and Browser tests to return a `5xx` or `4xx`.

Reviewer 4: That's not true for browser tests, we set an user agent by default.

> This happens because cURL automatically sets a `user-agent` as a request header, and this also automatically happens when you visit the website in your browser. Datadog API tests and Browser tests don't automatically set a `user-agent`. This can be a problem because some websites ban requests that don't have a `user-agent` set, which causes Datadog API tests and Browser tests to return a `5xx` or `4xx`.

Reviewer 2: Same here: actually, let's only write API test as Browser tests automatically set a user agent!

Reviewer: If this is common enough to be added in the troubleshooting guide, it's worth being adding some inline help (for instance, if the response code is 4xx/5xx and there is no user agent, might add a tooltip)
We could provide a list of common user agent

> The solution to this problem is to manually set a `user-agent` in your API tests and Browser. Set the `user-agent` in your API or Browser test under **Make a request** > **Advanced Options** > **Header** > **Request Header**. Set the **Name** to `user-agent` and set the **Value** to the `user-agent` value.

Reviewer 4: That's not needed for browser tests in the vast majority of cases. We should not need to train users to do so if they don't need it. Overall this whole article as written almost only applies to API tests (not browser nor ssl tests).

> The solution to this problem is to manually set a `user-agent` in your API tests and Browser. Set the `user-agent` in your API or Browser test under **Make a request** > **Advanced Options** > **Header** > **Request Header**. Set the **Name** to `user-agent` and set the **Value** to the `user-agent` value.

Reviewer 2: Same here: actually, let's only write API test as Browser tests automatically set a user agent!

further_reading:
- link: "synthetics/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Manage your Synthetics tests"
- link: "synthetics/browser_tests"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure a Browser Test"
- link: "synthetics/api_tests"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure an API Test"
---

If you experience issues setting up or configuring Datadog Synthetics, use this information to begin troubleshooting. If you continue to have trouble, [contact our AWESOME support team][1].

## API Tests

### Failed requests on a working endpoint

Sometimes you know you have a working endpoint because when you visit your website in a browser (or cURL it), you get `2xx` status code. But when setting an API test on this endpoints or when hitting `Test URL` to perform a fast test you get `5xx` or `4xx` status code.

This happens because cURL automatically sets a `user-agent` as a request header, and this also automatically happens when you visit the website in your browser. Datadog API tests don't automatically set a `user-agent`. This can be a problem because some websites ban requests that don't have a `user-agent` set, which causes Datadog API tests to return a `5xx` or `4xx` status code.

> The solution to this problem is to manually set a `user-agent` in your API tests. Set the `user-agent` in your API test under **Make a request** > **Advanced Options** > **Header** > **Request Header**. Set the **Name** to `user-agent` and set the **Value** to valid `user-agent` value like `Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_11_2) AppleWebKit/601.3.9 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/9.0.2 Safari/601.3.9` which represents a Mac OS X-based computer using a Safari browser.

Author: ```suggestion
The solution to this problem is to manually set a `user-agent` in your API tests. Set the `user-agent` in your API test under **Make a request** > **Advanced Options** > **Header** > **Request Header**. Set the **Name** to `user-agent` and set the **Value** to any valid `user-agent` value like `Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_11_2) AppleWebKit/601.3.9 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/9.0.2 Safari/601.3.9` which represents a Mac OS X-based computer using a Safari browser.
```

> The `user-agent` is a standard value used to identify the device and browser accessing to the website. The site can then return information specific to the requester. For example, this is how mobile-optimized sites work. So, if you're on a Mac OS X-based computer using a Safari browser, your `user-agent` value is `Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_11_2) AppleWebKit/601.3.9 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/9.0.2 Safari/601.3.9`. When you're adding a `user-agent` manually to Datadog, you can use any valid `user-agent` value.

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Synthetics Troubleshooting
kind: documentation
description: Troubleshoot common Synthetics isses.

> beta: true

Author: poor copy/paste

> beta: true

Author: ```suggestion
```

further_reading:
- link: "synthetics/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Manage your Synthetics tests"
- link: "synthetics/browser_tests"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure a Browser Test"
- link: "synthetics/api_tests"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure an API Test"
---

If you experience issues setting up or configuring Datadog Synthetics, use this information to begin troubleshooting. If you continue to have trouble, [contact our AWESOME support team][1].

## API Tests

### Failed requests on a working endpoint

> Sometimes you know you have a working endpoint because when you visit your website in a browser (or cURL it), you get `2xx` status code. But when setting an API test on this endpoints or when hitting `Test URL` to perform a fast test you get `5xx` or `4xx` status code.```

Author: ```suggestion
Sometimes you know you have a working endpoint because when you visit your website in a browser (or cURL it), you get `2xx` status code. But when setting an API test on this endpoints or when hitting `Test URL` to perform a fast test you get `5xx` or `4xx` status code.
```

> You can sometimes get `5xx` or `4xx` when setting an API test on your endpoints. This happens most when hitting `Test URL` to perform a fast test, and then the error shows up in your regular test results. However, you know there's not actually an issue, because when you visit your website in a browser (or cURL it), you're getting `2xx`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sometimes you know you have a working endpoint because when you visit your website in a browser (or cURL it), you get `2xx` status code. But when setting an API test on this endpoints or when hitting `Test URL` to perform a fast test you get `5xx` or `4xx` status code.```

> This happens because cURL automatically sets a `user-agent` as a request header, and this also automatically happens when you visit the website in your browser. Datadog API tests don't automatically set a `user-agent`. This can be a problem because some websites ban requests that don't have a `user-agent` set, which causes Datadog API tests to return a `5xx` or `4xx`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This happens because cURL automatically sets a `user-agent` as a request header, and this also automatically happens when you visit the website in your browser. Datadog API tests don't automatically set a `user-agent`. This can be a problem because some websites ban requests that don't have a `user-agent` set, which causes Datadog API tests to return a `5xx` or `4xx` status code.
```

> The solution to this problem is to manually set a `user-agent` in your API tests. Set the `user-agent` in your API test under **Make a request** > **Advanced Options** > **Header** > **Request Header**. Set the **Name** to `user-agent` and set the **Value** to the `user-agent` value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The solution to this problem is to manually set a `user-agent` in your API tests. Set the `user-agent` in your API test under **Make a request** > **Advanced Options** > **Header** > **Request Header**. Set the **Name** to `user-agent` and set the **Value** to valid `user-agent` value like `Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_11_2) AppleWebKit/601.3.9 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/9.0.2 Safari/601.3.9` which represents a Mac OS X-based computer using a Safari browser.
```

> The `user-agent` is a standard value used to identify the device and browser accessing to the website. The site can then return information specific to the requester. For example, this is how mobile-optimized sites work. So, if you're on a Mac OS X-based computer using a Safari browser, your `user-agent` value is `Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_11_2) AppleWebKit/601.3.9 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/9.0.2 Safari/601.3.9`. When you're adding a `user-agent` manually to Datadog, you can use any valid `user-agent` value.

Reviewer 3: I think we can remove this paragraph entirely since we give a working example above.
